 Ted Audio Collective I'm Elise Hugh, you're listening to Ted Talks Daily. It's back to school time which makes today's archive talk particularly timely. The paradox, we don't know what the future looks like at all, and yet educators have to prepare students for it. So in his Ted 2006 talk, the author and educator Sir Ken Robinson proposes a different approach to prepare our kids by making sure we aren't educating away their creativity. We're posting this talk today because Sir Ken passed away last week. All of us at Ted remain grateful for the humor, generosity of spirit, and deeply inspiring thinking he's brought to the world over the years. This is our most viewed talk of all time, and one of the first six Ted Talks that we ever released, please enjoy. I asked back curiously, but if you are and you say to somebody what do you do and you say you work in education, you can see the blood run from their face, they think oh my God, why me? My one night out all week. But if you ask for their education, they pin you to the wall because it's one of those things that goes deep with people. I'm alright, like religion and money. I have a big interest in education and I think we all do. We have a huge vested interest in it partly because it's education that's meant to take us into this future that we can't grasp. If you think of it, children starting school this year will be retiring in 2065. Nobody has a clue what the world will look like in five years time and yet we're meant to be educating them for it. So the unpredictability I think is extraordinary. The third part of this is that we've all agreed nonetheless on the really extraordinary capacities that children have, their capacities for innovation. So I want to talk about education and I want to talk about creativity. My intention is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy and we should treat it with the same status. Thank you. That was it. Thank you very much. So 15 minutes left. Well, I was born. No, the... I had a great story recently. I love telling it. I have a little girl who was in a drawing lesson. She was six and she was at the back drawing and the teacher said, this little girl had never paid attention and in this drawing lesson she did. And the teacher was fascinated. She went over to and she said, what are you drawing? And the girl said, I'm drawing a picture of God. And the teacher said, but nobody knows what God looks like. And the girl said, they will in a minute. Okay. When... When my son was four in England, actually he was four everywhere to be honest. I mean, if we've been strict about it, wherever he went he was four out here. But he was in the Nativity play. Do you remember the story? No, it's big, it's big story. Mel Gibson, at the sequel, you may have seen it. Nativity too. But James got the part of Joseph, which we were thrilled about. We consider this to be one of the lead parts. We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts. James Robinson is Joseph. He didn't have to speak. But you know where the three kings come in? Now they come in bearing gifts and they bring gold, frankincense and merit. This really happened. We're sitting there and they... I think just went out of sequence. Because we talked to little boy afterwards and said, you know, you're okay with that? And they said, yeah, why was that wrong? They just switched. I think it was it. Anyway, the three boys came in. Little four-year-olds were two towns on their heads. And they put these boxes down. The first boy said, I bring you gold. And the second boy said, I bring you mayor. And the third boy said, Frank sent this. Which... ...sounds like... ...sounds like... ...sounds like... Well, these things have in common use is that kids will take a chance. If they don't know, they'll have a go. I'm alright. They're not frightened of being wronged. Now, I don't mean to say that being wrong is the same thing as being creative. What we do know is, if you're not prepared to be wrong, you'll never come up with anything original. If you're not prepared to be wrong. And by the time they get to be adults, most kids have lost that capacity. They have become frightened of being wrong. And we run our companies this, by the way. We stigmatise mistakes. And we're now running national education systems where mistakes are the worst thing you can make. And the result is that we are educating people out of their creative capacities. Picasso once said this. He said that all children are born artists. The problem is to remain an artist as we grow up. I believe this passionately that we don't grow into creativity, we grow out of it. Or rather, we get educated out of it. So why is this? I lived in Stratford on Avon until about five years ago. In fact, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles. So you can imagine what a seamless transition you know this was from... Actually, we lived in place called Sinisterfield, just outside Stratford, which is where Shakespeare's father was born. Are you struck by a new thought I was? You don't think of Shakespeare having a father, do you? Do you? Because you don't think of Shakespeare being a child. Do you think Shakespeare being seven? I never thought of it. He was a seven at some point. He was in somebody's English class, wasn't he? Children's family. Really? How annoying would that be? Right. Must try harder. Being sent to bed by us now, go to Shakespeare, go to bed now, you know, to William Shakespeare. And put the pencil down. And stop speaking like that. It's confusing everybody. Anyway, we moved from Stratford to Los Angeles. And I just want to say what about the transition? Actually, my son didn't want to come. I've got two kids. He was 21 now and daughter is 16. He didn't want to come to Los Angeles. You loved it, but he had a girlfriend in England. This was the love of his life. Sarah, he'd known her for a month. Man, you've had the fourth anniversary. You're about to enter. Because it's a long time when you're 16. Anyway, he was really upset on the plane. He said, I'll never find another girl like Sarah. And we were all the pleased about that, frankly, because she was... She was the main reason we were leaving the country. But something strikes you when you move to America. And when you travel around the world, every education system on earth has the same hierarchy of subjects. Everyone doesn't matter where you go. You think it would be otherwise, but it isn't. At the top are mathematics and languages. The only humanity is in the bottom of the arts. Everywhere on earth. And in pretty much every system too, there's a hierarchy within the arts. Art and music are normally given a higher status in schools than drama and dance. There isn't an education system on the planet that teaches dance every day to children the way we teach them mathematics. Why? Why not? I think this is rather important. I think maths is very important, but so is dance. Children dance all the time if they're allowed to. We all do. We all have bodies, don't we? Did I miss a meeting? I think. I think. Truth is what happens is, as children grow up, we start to educate them progressively from the way stuff. And then we focus on their heads and slightly to one side. If you were to visit education as an alien and say what's it for? Public education. I think you'd have to conclude if you look at the output, you know, who really succeeds by this? Who does everything they should? Who gets all the brownie points? You know, who are the winners? I think you'd have to conclude the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors. Isn't it? They're the people who come out the top. And now I used to be one. So then, you know. And I like university professors, but you know, we shouldn't help them up as the high watermark of all human achievement. They're just a form of life. You know, another form of life. But they're rather curious. And they're just out of affection for them. There's some curious about professors in my experience, not all of them, but typically, they live in their heads. They live up there and slightly to one side. They're disembodied, you know, in a kind of literal way. You know, they look upon their body as a form of transport for their heads. You know, it's... Don't they? It's a way of getting their head to meetings. If you want real evidence of out of body experiences, by the way, get yourself along to a residential conference for senior academics, and pop into the discatech on the final night. And there you will see it. Bromening women, writhing uncontrollably. Off the beat. Wait into it ends. I think I'll go in and write a paper about it. Now, our education system is predicated on the idea of academic ability. And there's a reason. The whole system was invented. Round the world, there were no public systems of education really before the 19th century. They all came into being to meet the needs of industrialism. So, their hierarchy is written on two ideas. Number one, that the most useful subjects for worker at the top. So, you were probably steered benignly away from things at school when you were a kid. Things you liked on the ground, you would never get a job doing that. Is that right? Don't do music, you're not going to be a musician, don't do art, you won't be an artist. Benign advice. Now, profoundly mistaken. The whole world is engulfed in revolution. And the second is academic ability, which has really come to dominate our view of intelligence, because the universities designed the system in their image. If you think of it, the whole system of public education around the world is a protracted process of university entrance. And the consequence is that many highly talented, brilliant, creative people think they're not. Because they think they were good at at school, wasn't valued, always actually stigmatized. And I think we can't afford to go on that way. In the next 30 years, according to UNESCO, more people worldwide will be graduating through education than since the beginning of history. More people. And it's the combination of technology and its transformation effect on work and demography and the huge explosion in population. Suddenly, degrees aren't worth anything. Isn't that true? When I was a student, if you had a degree, you had a job. If you didn't have a job, it's because you didn't want one. And I didn't want one. Frankly, so. But now, kids with degrees are often heading home to carry on playing video games. Because you need an MA where the previous job required a BA and now you need a PhD for the other. It's a process of academic inflation and it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet. We need to radically rethink our view of intelligence. We know three things about intelligence. One, it's diverse. We think about the world in all the ways that we experience it. We think visually, we think in sound, we think kinesthetically. We think in abstract terms, we think in movement. Secondly, intelligence is dynamic. If you look at the interactions of a human brain, as we heard yesterday from a number of presentations, intelligence is wonderfully interactive. The brain isn't divided into compartments. In fact, creativity, which I define as the process of having original ideas that have value, more often than not, comes about through the interaction of different discipline-wise of seeing things. The brain is intentionally, by the way, there's a shaft of nerves that joins the two halves of the brain, and all the corpus callosum, it's thicket in women. I think this is probably why women are better at multitasking, because you are. Aren't you? That's a raft of research. But I know it's my personal life. If my wife is cooking a meal at home, which is not often, thankfully. But if she's cooking, she's dealing with people on the phone, she's talking to the kids, painting the ceiling, you know, she's doing open heart surgery over here. If I'm cooking, the door is shut, the kids are out, the phone's on the hook. If she comes in, I get annoyed. I say, Terry, please, I'm trying to fry an egg in here. You know, you can give me a break. Actually, there was a philosophical thing. I was like, three falls in a forest, and nobody hears it. Did it happen? Remember that old chestnut? I saw a great t-shirt, really, recently, which said, if a man speaks his mind in a forest, and no woman hears him, is he still wrong? And the third thing about intelligence is, it's distinct. I'm looking at a book at the moment called Epiphany, based on a series of interviews with people about how they discovered their talent, and fascinated by how people got to be there. It's really prompted by a conversation I had with a wonderful woman who most people have never heard of, she's called Jillian Lynn, have you heard of her? She's a choreographer, and everybody knows her work. She did cats, and phantom of the opera. I used to be on the board of the Royal Ballet in England. Anyway, Jillian had lunch on her, I said, how did you get to be a dancer? And she said it was interesting. When she was at school, she was really hopeless. And the school in the 30s wrote to her parents, I'd think Jillian has a learning disorder. She couldn't concentrate, she was fidgeting. I think now that she's had ADHD. Wouldn't you? But this was the 1930s, and ADHD hadn't been invented at this point, so it wasn't an available condition. People weren't aware they could have that. Anyway, she went to see this specialist. So this oak panel room, and she was there with her mother, and she was led and sat on this chair at the end, and she sat on her hands for 20 minutes, while this man talked to mother about all the problems Jillian was having at school. And at the end of it, because she was disturbing people at home work was always late, and so on, little kid of eight. In the end, the doctor went and sat next to Jillian, and said, Jillian, I've listened to all these things, the mother's told me, I need to speak to her privately. So she said, wait here, we'll be back, we won't be very long, and they went to the left. But as they went out the room, he turned on the radio that was sitting on his desk. And when they got out the room, he said to her mother, just stand and watch her. And the minute they left the room, she said she was on her feet moving to the music. And they watched for a few minutes, and he turned to her mother, and he said, you know, Mrs. Lynn, Jillian isn't sick, she's a dancer. Take her to a dance school. I said, what happened? She said, she did. I can't tell you how wonderful it was. We walked in this room, and it was full of people like me. People who couldn't sit still. People who had to move to think. Who had to move to think. They did ballet, they did tap, they did jazz, they did modern, they did contemporary. She was eventually auditioned for the Royal Ballet School. She became a solace, she had a wonderful career at the Royal Ballet. She eventually graduated from the Royal Ballet School, found her own company, the Jillian Dance Company, met Andrew Lloyd Webber. She's been responsible for some of her successful musical theatre productions in history. She's given pleasure to millions, and she's a multi-millionaire. Somebody else might have put on medication and told her to calm down. Now, I think... APPLAUSE What I think it comes to this, I believe our only hope for the future, is to adopt a new conception of human ecology, one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity. Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip mind the earth, for a particular commodity. And for the future, it won't service. We have to rethink the fundamental principles on which we're educating our children. There was a wonderful quote by Jonas Salk, who said, if all the insects were to disappear from the earth, within 50 years, all life on earth would end. If all human beings disappeared from the earth, within 50 years, all forms of life would flourish. And he's right. What Ted celebrates is the gift of the human imagination. We have to be careful now that we use this gift wisely, and the only way we'll do it is by seeing our creative capacities for the richness they are, and seeing our children for the hope that they are. And our task is to educate their whole being so they can face this future. By the way, we may not see this future, but they will. And our job is to help them make something of it. Thank you very much. Have a good day.